# README for Rick

Rick is a Rust INTERCAL interpreter/compiler.

## Credits

Rick is modeled closely on the C-INTERCAL compiler written by Eric S. Raymond
and Alex Smith, and some algorithms for built-in functionality (operators,
binary I/O) is adapted from there, as well as the standard library in
`syslib.rs`.

Also, all the sample code from the `code` directory comes from the C-INTERCAL
distribution.  See the CATALOG file there for an overview of programs.

The idea of printing Mandelbrot while compiling is taken from PyPy.

## The interpreter

The INTERCAL interpreter takes a source file, parses it into an AST (abstract
sadist tree), and interprets the program, going through the statements.

## The compiler

Rick can also translate INTERCAL source to Rust, which is then compiled by the
system Rust compiler.  This is a few orders of magnitude slower than compiling
the C sources generated by C-INTERCAL, but achieves about the same runtime
performance, while being safe Rust code.

Rick itself uses unstable Rust features, but the generated code is stable-only.

One trick used for sharing code between the interpreter and programs translated
to Rust code is the syntax extension living in `rick_syntex`.  It contains an
attribute that will embed the decorated module's code as a string into the
module at compile time.  This is then written to the generated Rust files while
translating.

## Testing

The test suite consists of input and output files for the demo programs in
`code`.  Run `python test.py` to run the test suite.  Run `python test.py
--long` to also test compiled code, note however that this takes a while.
